seventy-seven times(ἑβδομηκοντάκις) seven(ἑπτά).

ἑβδομηκοντάκις
Part of Speech: Adverb
Transliteration: hebdomékontakis
Definition: seventy times

First of all, “seventy-seven times(ἑβδομηκοντάκις)” is only used here.

hebdomékontakis's word origin is hebdomékonta(ἑβδομήκοντα).

ἑβδομήκοντα
Part of Speech: Indeclinable Numeral (Adjective)
Transliteration: hebdomékonta
Definition: seventy

Important thing is that hebdomḗkonta ("70") is used in Scripture both with literal and symbolic meaning.

[As the product of 7 and 10, 70 has two components with symbolic value (in a figurative context).]

ἑβδομήκοντα's word origins are ἕβδομος and δέκα

ἕβδομος
Part of Speech: Adjective
Transliteration: hebdomos
Definition: seventh

hebdomos – seventh; (figuratively) the result of God's perfect, finished work.

ἕβδομος's word origin is ἑπτά.

ἑπτά
Part of Speech: Indeclinable Numeral (Adjective)
Transliteration: hepta
Definition: seven

The number seven in Scripture often has the figurative meaning, "God's perfect, finished work." Indeed, this symbolic sense is often key to interpreting texts that use the number seven, both in the OT and NT.

δέκα
Part of Speech: Indeclinable Numeral (Adjective)
Transliteration: deka
Definition: ten

The number "ten" commonly occurs in Scripture with symbolic (as well as literal) meaning – i.e. with double entendre (conveying both levels of meaning at once).

Back to seventy-seven times(ἑβδομηκοντάκις) seven(ἑπτά),
“Seventy(ἑβδομήκοντα)” here is as the product of 7 and 10.

ἑβδομήκοντα has two-word origins.
1. ἕβδομος, seventh; (figuratively) the result of God's perfect, finished work.
1.1 ἕβδομος's word origin is ἑπτά, seven.
And the number seven in Scripture often has the figurative meaning, "God's perfect, finished work."
2. δέκα, ten; with double entendre (conveying both levels of meaning at once).

Conclusion.
“seventy-seven” should be understood as 7 times 10 added 7.
"God's perfect, finished work."  and "God's perfect, finished work." are connected by “10”, conveying both levels of meaning at once. In this case, both words are the same, so it should be understood as emphasizing.
And then add "God's perfect, finished work."

As a result, “finished” is emphasized three times. This means “unlimited” figuratively. So there is no limit to forgiveness.